---
layout: post
title:  "Are you teaching your kids to be happy?"
date:   2020-07-28 14.42.00
categories: Articles
---

Are you a kind of person who cares so much about the growth and success of your kids? Are you a kind of person who feels insecure about the future of your younger sibling? If you said yes to any one of these questions, then this article is for you.

Every kid I have seen in my life imitates some or other things that their parents do. Kids learn from you. You talk nonsense, they are listening to you. You get angry, they are watching you. Indirectly you are controlling their thoughts. Don’t teach them how to live, show them how to live.

If you want your kids to respect elders, you start respecting everyone around you. If you want your kids to listen to you, start listening to your elder ones. I have seen kids who are so audacious that they don’t respect their own parents. Show them how to live independently. At the same time, show them how important it is to maintain integrity.

Appreciate them when they get a good score in school, but don’t tell them what they should do next. When you keep on adding a task to their life, they forget to live in the moment. Let them enjoy little things in their life. For instance, when they tell you that they got the highest score in mathematics, appreciate them, buy them an ice cream but never advise them to keep getting the highest score in mathematics. Whenever you say that, all that a kid can think of is, how will dad react when I don’t get the first mark next time? You are technically taking away 50% of your kid’s happiness.

The same goes for siblings too. Younger siblings always try to imitate their elder ones. When your younger one is doing well in life, congratulate them. Don’t tell them what’s waiting next in life. Let them explore and find out. Be there to help them but don’t guide all the way. You are making them dependent on your decisions and reactions.

You don’t have to try so hard to be a good father or a good mother or a good sister or a good brother. All that you have to do is to live your life happily and let them learn from you. Take time to sit and understand what is happening in your life. Take time for yourself and think how well you are handling things in your life. Spend some time alone to talk with your family members about the things going on in their life.

Stay happy and relaxed. You will anyway finish all the work you need to do but make it worth. Have a friendly talk with your kids at least three times a week. Make them understand that they don’t have to be successful to get your attention. Make them understand that no matter what, you will always be the same to them. Let them fly.

Most parents teach their kids to be successful, that’s the reason why these days kids are not able to handle failure. Even a small failure makes them uncomfortable. They lose themselves. That’s because we always treat them better when they are successful and we only advise them when they fail.

When you advise someone all the time, they eventually lose their self-esteem. Stop advising. Start living. Show them how happy you are (you need to be really happy to do this, don’t act), Let them learn from you. Don’t add pressure to their life asking them to do everything that you wanted to do in your life. Don’t compel them to learn swimming, show them how important it is to learn swimming. Grow that interest in them; they will gradually start forcing you to teach them swimming. That’s how they are supposed to be treated.

Even if it is a small decision, let them make it for themselves. Let them fall; they will get up all by themselves because they know how important it is to get up every time they fall. Teach them how to do that. Teach them to be sportive about things in life. Encourage them but don’t advise them.

Success is a mindset; when your kids are happy, they keep moving, and they keep growing. I have heard many of my friends telling, “I can’t do this”, I can’t do that”, “I have to score good marks else my father will be mad”. Why? Why?

We only live once. Stop telling them what to do next. Take a moment to enjoy how good life is.

When you always think about what’s next. You will never enjoy NOW.