---
layout: post
title:  "Just Live"
date:   2020-07-19 10.30.00
categories: Articles
---
The road to happiness is not always filled with roses. We gotta land on the thorns and travel through the storm. When some people see happiness in simple things, some need big reasons. Happiness doesn’t have a single definition. Some say, it’s just a myth. Some believe it’s the purpose. I define happiness as “To love and to be loved”. 

The moment you realise you deserve better, you start living. The realisation comes when the thoughts in the brain and the emotions in the heart are synchronised. You start believing. You start understanding the purpose of your living. Everything that frustrated you once suddenly starts to make you feel better. Little things in life makes more sense. You start loving yourself. 

The universe falls in love with people who decide not to give up. Lean on the wall and balance yourself. Gather courage to walk again. Never fall down. These walls are found everywhere. Identify them. Talk to them. Learn from them. Teach them. Love them. Carry all the learning with you. Never forget the experience. One day you will realise who you are. 

You will start making changes in your routine. You will start to give more than what you expect. Eventually you will end up getting more than what you expect. You will start being generous. You will start appreciating little efforts. You will start to see the difference between truth and lie. You will one day genuinely agree that everything in life happens for a reason. That is when you will start believing. 

Believe in yourself. Wherever you go, remember to take hope with you. Don’t quit. Find your definition of happiness. Work for it. Achieve it.

Feel the pleasure you get out of this achievement and SMILE :)